drg-route-distribution
**********************


Description
===========

A route distribution establishes how routes get imported into DRG
route tables and exported through the DRG attachments.

A route distribution is a list of statements. Each statement consists
of a set of matches, all of which must be *True* in order for the
statement’s action to take place. Each statement determines which
routes are propagated.

You can assign a route distribution as a route table’s import
distribution. The statements in an import route distribution specify
how how incoming route advertisements through a referenced attachment
or all attachments of a certain type are inserted into the route
table.

You can assign a route distribution as a DRG attachment’s export
distribution. Export route distribution statements specify how routes
in a DRG attachment’s assigned table are advertised out through the
attachment. When a DRG attachment is created, a route distribution is
created with a single ACCEPT statement with match criteria MATCH_ALL.
Exporting routes through VCN attachments is unsupported, so no VCN
attachments are assigned an export distribution.

The two auto-generated DRG route tables (one as the default for VCN
attachments, and the other for all other types of attachments) are
each assigned an auto generated import route distribution. The default
VCN table’s import distribution has a single statement with match
criteria MATCH_ALL to import routes from each DRG attachment type. The
other table’s import distribution has a statement to import routes
from attachments with the VCN type.

The route distribution is always in the same compartment as the DRG.


Available Commands
==================

* create

* delete

* get

* list

* update
